# fb-muc-react-workshop

* I'll use node `v12.13.0` for this.
* We'll build a Pokedex. Gotta catch 'em all 🎣

### TODO: check out React 360
360 degree and VR experiences for the browser and VR headsets

## Concepts

Learn once, write everywhere.

Write once, user evverywhere.

## Visual / logical units are components that are re-usable.

## Decarative UI - dev defines what to display

## Data flows down the tree hierarchy, never up. Data passes through props, is stored in state.

## Notes

* The entire application will be filled by Javascript into the DOM root.
* `index.js` renders it.
* A component is a plain JS function, returns JSX (plain HTML generated by Javascript).

### While coding...
* add divs for sidebar and details view
* we can iterate over information / elements in React
* react only rerenders when you change the state

```javascript
const values = [1, 2, 3];
const [x, y, z] = values; 
```

* Main inspiration behind react: Notification bell
    * new notification renders the red badge on the badge
    * two transitions (in an imperative way)
        * `addBadge()`
        * `removeBadge()` 
        * mute transitions --> 6 transitions (easy to miss transitions that I would need to implement)
    * three states: muted, new, default for the declarative way (reduces repetitive code)
    * makes it possible to create scalable applications

* Components can be composed. (PokemonList and DetailView form App). Therefore there should only be one direction of data flow - downwards.

* set things as global variable so you can interact with it in the console
* REST:
    * Specify a resource
    * Give more details
* USE A JSON CHROME FORMATTER
* Facebook uses "Flow" (?) - a type checker...? (and Typescript)
* You can test high latency situations with `setTimeout`
* React Suspense can coordinate the data coming in into the Frontend.

Future work: There are some race conditions in the current solution...

## Questions
* Why do I need curly braces within curly braces
* Which tool do they use to magnify screen areas?
* Dilemma with the states. Didn't get that. 


## Learnings / Insights
* I can tell what is difficult and why
    * JSX is very unreadable... how can we make it more structured?
* Saw Vim lines (current line: n, previous line has index 1, next line has index 1)